1. ﻿I had the story, bit by bit, from various people, and, as generally
2. happens in such cases, each time it was a different story.
3. 
4. If you know Starkfield, Massachusetts, you know the post-office. If you
5. know the post-office you must have seen Ethan Frome drive up to it, drop
6. the reins on his hollow-backed bay and drag himself across the brick
7. pavement to the white colonnade; and you must have asked who he was.
8. 
9. It was there that, several years ago, I saw him for the first time; and
10. the sight pulled me up sharp. Even then he was the most striking figure
11. in Starkfield, though he was but the ruin of a man. It was not so much
12. his great height that marked him, for the “natives” were easily singled
13. out by their lank longitude from the stockier foreign breed: it was the
14. careless powerful look he had, in spite of a lameness checking each step
15. like the jerk of a chain. There was something bleak and unapproachable
16. in his face, and he was so stiffened and grizzled that I took him for an
17. old man and was surprised to hear that he was not more than fifty-two.
18. I had this from Harmon Gow, who had driven the stage from Bettsbridge
19. to Starkfield in pre-trolley days and knew the chronicle of all the
20. families on his line.
21. 
22. “He's looked that way ever since he had his smash-up; and that's
23. twenty-four years ago come next February,” Harmon threw out between
24. reminiscent pauses.
25. 
26. The “smash-up” it was--I gathered from the same informant--which, besides
27. drawing the red gash across Ethan Frome's forehead, had so shortened and
28. warped his right side that it cost him a visible effort to take the few
29. steps from his buggy to the post-office window. He used to drive in
30. from his farm every day at about noon, and as that was my own hour for
31. fetching my mail I often passed him in the porch or stood beside him
32. while we waited on the motions of the distributing hand behind the
33. grating. I noticed that, though he came so punctually, he seldom
34. received anything but a copy of the Bettsbridge Eagle, which he put
35. without a glance into his sagging pocket. At intervals, however, the
36. post-master would hand him an envelope addressed to Mrs. Zenobia--or Mrs.
37. Zeena--Frome, and usually bearing conspicuously in the upper left-hand
38. corner the address of some manufacturer of patent medicine and the name
39. of his specific. These documents my neighbour would also pocket without
40. a glance, as if too much used to them to wonder at their number and
41. variety, and would then turn away with a silent nod to the post-master.